.TH CLA_get_value_required 3
.SH NAME
.PP
CLA_get_value_required \- Get the value associated with a required named argument
.SH LIBRARY
.PP
cla library (\fIlibcla\fR, \fI\-lcla\fR)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B #include \[dq]cla/cla.h\[dq]
.PP
\fBconst char * CLA_get_value_required (const struct cla * \fIself\fR\B, const char * \fIname\fR\fB);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B CLA_get_value_required
gets the value associated with a required named argument \fIname\fR, using the
classification information from \fIself\fR.
.PP
.I self
can be constructed using
\fBCLA_create\fR.
.I name
can be either the argument's name or its alias, see \fBCLA_add_required\fR(3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
.PP
A pointer to \fIname\fR's value. Any subsequent parsing is left to the user. 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The code example below represents a program that expects three required named arguments: one that
can be referenced through its name \[dq]--nsamples\[dq] and its alias \[dq]-n\[dq]; one that can be
referenced only through its name \[dq]--freq\[dq]; and one that can be referenced only through
its alias \[dq]-f\[dq]. For each required named argument, the program prints the corresponding
value as supplied by the user during invocation of the program.
.IP
.EX
#include "cla/cla.h"
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

int main(int argc, const char * argv[]) {

    // allocate dynamic memory to store information about
    // what arguments to expect
    struct cla * cla = CLA_create();

    // define a few required named arguments
    CLA_add_required(cla, "--nsamples", "-n");
    CLA_add_required(cla, "--freq", nullptr);
    CLA_add_required(cla, nullptr, "-f");

    // parse the command line arguments and store the result in `cla`
    CLA_parse(cla, argc, argv);

    // handle help requests
    if (CLA_help_requested(cla)) {
        fprintf(stdout, "Valid option names:\\n"
                        "    --nsamples, -n\\n"
                        "    --freq\\n"
                        "    -f\\n");
        exit(EXIT_SUCCESS);
    }

    // print the value of each required named argument
    fprintf(stdout,
           "--nsamples/-n=%s\\n",
           CLA_get_value_required(cla, "--nsamples"));

    fprintf(stdout,
           "--freq=%s\\n",
           CLA_get_value_required(cla, "--freq"));

    fprintf(stdout,
           "-f=%s\\n",
           CLA_get_value_required(cla, "-f"));

    // free memory resources
    CLA_destroy(&cla);

    // exit
    return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
.EE
.PP
Here's some sample output of the above program:
.IP
.EX
$ ./example-required
ERROR: Required key '-n/--nsamples' not found, aborting.
.EE
.IP
.EX
$ ./example-required -h
Valid option names:
    --nsamples, -n
    --freq
    -f
.EE
.IP
.EX
$ ./example-required --nsamples
ERROR: '--nsamples' requires a value but none given, aborting.
.EE
.IP
.EX
$ ./example-required --nsamples 12
ERROR: Required key '--freq' not found, aborting.
.EE
.IP
.EX
$ ./example-required --nsamples 12 --freq 11000
ERROR: Required key '-f' not found, aborting.
.EE
.IP
.EX
$ ./example-required --nsamples 12 --freq 11000 -f file.wav
--nsamples/-n=12
--freq=11000
-f=file.wav
.EE
.IP
.EX
$ ./example-required --nsamples 12 --freq 11000 -f file.wav -n 23
ERROR: Found multiple usages of key '-n/--nsamples', aborting.
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBCLA\fR(3), \fBCLA_create\fR(3), \fBCLA_add_required\fR(3)
